Rewrite serial (#277)
rust-embedded/discovery: src/06-serial-communication/nix-tooling.md

# \*nix tooling

## Newer revisions of the micro:bit board

> With newer revisions, if you connect the micro:bit board to your computer you

Author: Thinking about it, there arent actually new versions....I just replaced micro:bit with discovery here and the one sentence section was small enough for me to overlook :/

> With newer revisions, if you connect the micro:bit board to your computer you

Reviewer: Hmm, still there are 3 versions of the micro:bit: 1.3, 1.5 and 2.0. The question would be if that makes any difference in this regard.

> With newer revisions, if you connect the micro:bit board to your computer you

Author: iirc the new micro:bit 2.0 has an NRF52 CPU even? So it wont be compatible with this book at the moment :/ We're gonna have to look into that at some point. Regarding the difference between 1.3 and 1.5 I'm not quite sure, I know that i got a version 1.5 that behaves like described here.

> With newer revisions, if you connect the micro:bit board to your computer you

Reviewer: Yes, version 2.0 uses an nRF52833 but keeps the same motion sensor as version 1.5 (LSM303AGR). Version 1.3 has a different accelerometer and magnetometer.
Still, with regard to serial communication everything should be the same, I think. The example programs will have to differ a bit, though.
See [micro:bit hardware](https://tech.microbit.org/hardware/)

revisions. If you do have a newer revision skip the next section and move to the
"minicom" section.

## Older revisions of the discovery board / external serial module
## minicom

Connect the serial module to your computer and let's find out what name the OS assigned to it.

> **NOTE** On macs, the USB device will named like this: `/dev/cu.usbserial-*`. You won't
> find it using `dmesg`, instead use `ls -l /dev | grep cu.usb` and adjust the following 

> > commands accordingly!

Reviewer: This is still useful for macOS

Author: In theory it's possible that this info might be wrong with the micro:bit so I removed it (I cannot check whether it's true since I dont own a Mac) but let's put it back in until proven wrong ^^

Author: Actually reading through the old version again, this part of the document is named " ## Older revisions of the discovery board / external serial module" so it's probably irrelevant if the stuff before this chapter already works? Would be cool if someone with a Mac could verify this.

Reviewer: I will check on it

Author: THis mac behaviour isnt relevant anymore according to therealprof.

Reviewer 2: Well, I said the `/dev/cu.*` isn't relevant. It might still be good to know how to find the device node... Not sure whether this is mentioned somewhere else. ;)

``` console
$ dmesg | grep -i tty
(..)
[  +0.000155] usb 3-2: FTDI USB Serial Device converter now attached to ttyUSB0
```

> But what's this `ttyUSB0` thing? It's a file of course! Everything is a file in \*nix:

Reviewer: I think this explanation is nice

``` console
$ ls -l /dev/ttyUSB0
crw-rw-rw- 1 root uucp 188, 0 Oct 27 00:00 /dev/ttyUSB0
```

> **NOTE** if the permissions above is `crw-rw----`, the udev rules have not been set correctly

> > see [udev rules](../03-setup/linux.html#udev-rules)

Reviewer: Was this already explained somewhere else?

Author: This is again only for outdated revision of the board/the serial adapter, on my linux I can just call minicom onto the device with my permissions looking like what is described as "wrong" here:
```
λ ls -l /dev/ttyACM0
crw-rw----. 1 root plugdev 166, 0 Jan 21 11:56 /dev/ttyACM0
```
So I guess this is fine? At least as long as you are part of the plugdev group of course but that might also be a Fedora specific thing, not quite sure :/

Reviewer: I did not have to set up permissions either in ubuntu so I would agree to the removal.

You can send out data by simply writing to this file:

``` console
$ echo 'Hello, world!' > /dev/ttyUSB0
```

> You should see the TX (red) LED on the serial module blink, just once and very fast!

Reviewer: Except for the different device name, this can still be done, right?

Author: True, I'll add it back in!

</p>

You can now send data using the keyboard! Go ahead and type something. Note that

> the TUI will *not* echo back what you type. If you pay attention to the yellow LED

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the text UI will *not* echo back what you type. If you pay attention to the yellow LED
```
